Welcome back.
It's time to complete this section of the Course by giving you a project.
So let's do an overview of the project and the next lecture will start the solutions.
So we're going to test new skills.
And there's three main options for approaching this project.
One is to just treat the solutions as a code a long lecture so you can do is if you really enjoyed the
previous series of lectures as a long project and that's how you prefer learning.
Just go ahead and treat the solutions.
Coming up next as a code along project.
The second option is to follow along with the suggested steps inside the instructions that textfile.
So inside the database folder there's a database project instructions textfile the has at the end some
bulleted instructions for you to follow to help break down the actual project and then the third option
and this is for the most challenging approach.
For the most ambitious students is after reviewing the example video that we're about to show what a
solution may look like in the web browser just begin coding and see if you can't figure it out completely
on your own.
So if that being said I wanted to show you the completed actual product is going to look like we're
going to add some functionality onto the previous web site and then you can decide what approach works
best for you.
So let's see what you're actually going to be building.
All right so this is what the final project solution is going to look like.
It's actually the same website as before but now we've added ONE MORE tab for adding owners so we still
have ADD PUP list of pups and Duleep pup.
But now if you click on Add owner you should see the ability to provide the name of the owner and the
idea of a puppy that's currently in the database and then add the owner and connect that.
So if you look at the list of pups you should see something like this.
The puppy name and then the owner is and then whatever the owner you linked to them is.
So it says something like puppy name is just a made up name third's and has no owner assigned to it
or puppy name is Sammies and the owner is Mimi etc. So to be able to add a pup.
Check out the list the pups and now reports back there owner if they have an owner assigned you can
still remove pups and then you can add owners.
And as far as these models of adding and connecting an owner to a puppy We've actually already covered
that in the relationships.
Lectures in the database section of the course so we already know how to add and connect those relationships
inside between owners and puppies.
Now what you need to do is combine all of that by adding a new template for adding and owners and then
connecting them and adding them in on the back end.
So essentially it's a lot of stuff that we've already done before but you just need to connect it to
the templates and add that functionality to the Web site.
So if you're feeling really ambitious Just knowing this information go ahead and try to do it on your
own.
Now we're going to head back to the slides and give you some suggested steps for actually adding in
additional functionality to the Web site.
OK let's discuss some suggested steps for this project.
I would recommend the following procedure steps for tackling this project.
First copy your paste or duplicate the database in views folder.
That's the 0 3 databases and views folder and then add in an owner's model.
Very similar to the model we created in the relationships lecture's that was Section 2 and you have
all those files already from the flask.
Boot camp repo.
Then create a relationship between puppies and owners.
That one to one relationship then update the R EPR method for puppies in order to display the owner.
Now remember we have the if statement to let us know if we want to display them as no owner assigned
or the owner name.
Then use the flask D-B command line arguments such as Flast to be in the flask D-B migrate and flask
the upgrade in order to actually migrate and upgrade those changes to the owner model because remember
just adding in that model file or model class in your python script will actually affect the database.
You need to do the Flast DBI commands in order to update the sequel like database.
Once you've done that you should create a view in a form that lets you add new owners to your database
and when you add these owners you should be connecting them to a puppy by puppy ID and then what would
be really cool is if you flash a message upon creating a new owner stating the new owners name.
Then you can go back to the list view to confirm the new owner and puppy.
Keep in mind there's lots of possible solutions in the next series of lectures.
We're going to go over the example of just one solution but I would really say take advantage of the
code you've already written for you in the previous topic lectures.
Copying and pasting from the 0 3 file and folder and then adding on is going to save you a lot of time.
What I would suggest though is that you don't overwrite existing provided note files instead make copies.
That way you have the correct solutions to always refer back to.
In case you want to get started again.
All right.
Best of luck on the project.
Remember you can treat this as a code along but you're skipping over to the next lecture or we go over
an example solution.
We'll see if there.